README.md, before:



\# 🚦 Smart Traffic Management System (AI Powered)



An AI-based intelligent traffic control and monitoring system using \*\*Computer Vision + YOLOv8\*\* for real-time traffic management.



This project simulates a \*\*Smart City Traffic Control Center\*\* with:

\- Traffic density analysis  

\- Adaptive signal control  

\- Emergency vehicle management  

\- Accident detection  

\- Pothole detection  

\- Green corridor system  

\- AI-based lane prioritization  



---



\## 🧠 Core Features



\### 🚗 Traffic Intelligence

\- Real-time vehicle detection using YOLOv8  

\- Vehicle counting per lane  

\- Density-based traffic analysis  

\- Adaptive signal timing  

\- Smart lane switching  

\- AI-based signal control  



\### 🚑 Emergency Vehicle System

\- Manual emergency mode  

\- Emergency vehicle management  

\- Green corridor system  

\- Emergency lane priority  

\- Signal override system  



\### ⚠ Accident Detection System

\- AI-based stopped vehicle tracking  

\- Motion analysis  

\- Automatic accident detection  

\- Manual confirmation  

\- Accident clearance priority  



\### 🕳️ Pothole Detection System

\- Custom trained AI model  

\- Manual pothole mode  

\- Real-time pothole detection  

\- Road damage alert system  

\- Visual warning overlay  



---



\## 🤖 AI Models Used



\- YOLOv8 (yolov8n.pt) → Traffic detection  

\- Custom YOLO model (best.pt) → Pothole detection  



> ⚠ Models are not included in this repository  

> They will be provided via Google Drive



---



\## 🎮 Control Keys



| Key | Action |

|------|--------|

| E | Emergency Mode ON |

| N | Back to Normal Mode |

| P | Pothole Mode ON |

| K | Pothole Mode OFF |

| C | Confirm Accident |

| R | Reset Accident |

| Q | Quit System |



---



\## 📁 Project Structure



Smart\_Traffic\_System/

\- main.py  

\- best.pt (download separately)  

\- yolov8n.pt (auto-download by YOLO)  

\- videos/  

\- README.md  

\- requirements.txt  



---



\## ⚙️ Installation



1\) Clone repo  

git clone https://github.com/GouranshUpadhyay/Smart-Traffic-Management.git  

cd Smart-Traffic-Management  



2\) Install dependencies  

pip install -r requirements.txt  



---



\## 📥 Models



YOLO traffic model auto-downloads:

yolov8n.pt



Pothole model:

best.pt (Google Drive link will be provided)



Place best.pt in project folder:

Smart\_Traffic\_System/best.pt



---



\## 🎥 Add Your Own Videos



Edit in main.py:

video\_paths = \[

&nbsp;   "videos/video1.mp4",

&nbsp;   "videos/video2.mp4",

&nbsp;   "videos/video3.mp4",

&nbsp;   "videos/video4.mp4"

]



---



\## ▶ Run



python main.py



---



\## 🌍 Use Cases



\- Smart cities  

\- AI traffic systems  

\- Research  

\- Smart infrastructure  

\- Hackathons  

\- Academic projects  



---



\## 🔐 Safety



This is for:

\- Education  

\- Research  

\- Simulation  

\- Learning AI systems  



Not for real-world deployment without legal and government approval.



---



\## 🧑‍💻 Author



Gouransh Upadhyay  

B.Tech CSE Student  

AI Developer | Smart Systems Enthusiast  



---



\## 🚀 Future Scope



\- Real CCTV integration  

\- Live camera feeds  

\- IoT traffic signals  

\- Cloud AI  

\- Smart dashboards  

\- Mobile apps  

\- Emergency API integration  

\- Traffic prediction AI

Commit message:

Updated README with model download link

README.md, after:



\# 🚦 Smart Traffic Management System (AI Powered)



An AI-based intelligent traffic control and monitoring system using \*\*Computer Vision + YOLOv8\*\* for real-time traffic management.



This project simulates a \*\*Smart City Traffic Control Center\*\* with:

\- Traffic density analysis  

\- Adaptive signal control  

\- Emergency vehicle management  

\- Accident detection  

\- Pothole detection  

\- Green corridor system  

\- AI-based lane prioritization  



---



\## 🧠 Core Features



\### 🚗 Traffic Intelligence

\- Real-time vehicle detection using YOLOv8  

\- Vehicle counting per lane  

\- Density-based traffic analysis  

\- Adaptive signal timing  

\- Smart lane switching  

\- AI-based signal control  



\### 🚑 Emergency Vehicle System

\- Manual emergency mode  

\- Emergency vehicle management  

\- Green corridor system  

\- Emergency lane priority  

\- Signal override system  



\### ⚠ Accident Detection System

\- AI-based stopped vehicle tracking  

\- Motion analysis  

\- Automatic accident detection  

\- Manual confirmation  

\- Accident clearance priority  



\### 🕳️ Pothole Detection System

\- Custom trained AI model  

\- Manual pothole mode  

\- Real-time pothole detection  

\- Road damage alert system  

\- Visual warning overlay  



---



\## 🤖 AI Models Used



\- YOLOv8 (yolov8n.pt) → Traffic detection  

\- Custom YOLO model (best.pt) → Pothole detection  



> ⚠ Models are not included in this repository  

> They will be provided via Google Drive



---



\## 🎮 Control Keys



| Key | Action |

|------|--------|

| E | Emergency Mode ON |

| N | Back to Normal Mode |

| P | Pothole Mode ON |

| K | Pothole Mode OFF |

| C | Confirm Accident |

| R | Reset Accident |

| Q | Quit System |



---



\## 📁 Project Structure



Smart\_Traffic\_System/

\- main.py  

\- best.pt (download separately)  

\- yolov8n.pt (auto-download by YOLO)  

\- videos/  

\- README.md  

\- requirements.txt  



---



\## ⚙️ Installation



1\) Clone repo  

git clone https://github.com/GouranshUpadhyay/Smart-Traffic-Management.git  

cd Smart-Traffic-Management  



2\) Install dependencies  

pip install -r requirements.txt  



---



\## 📥 Models



YOLO traffic model auto-downloads:

yolov8n.pt

### 🕳️ Pothole Detection Model (Custom YOLO Model)

Download `best.pt` from Google Drive:
👉https://drive.google.com/file/d/1oJ7wlCKCJS0x6g72m2v4VjkyHSCfaqMx/view?usp=sharing

After downloading, place the file in the project root:

Smart_Traffic_System/best.pt


---



\## 🎥 Add Your Own Videos



Edit in main.py:

video\_paths = \[

&nbsp;   "videos/video1.mp4",

&nbsp;   "videos/video2.mp4",

&nbsp;   "videos/video3.mp4",

&nbsp;   "videos/video4.mp4"

]



---



\## ▶ Run



python main.py



---



\## 🌍 Use Cases



\- Smart cities  

\- AI traffic systems  

\- Research  

\- Smart infrastructure  

\- Hackathons  

\- Academic projects  



---



\## 🔐 Safety



This is for:

\- Education  

\- Research  

\- Simulation  

\- Learning AI systems  



Not for real-world deployment without legal and government approval.



---



\## 🧑‍💻 Author



Gouransh Upadhyay  

B.Tech CSE Student  

AI Developer | Smart Systems Enthusiast  



---



\## 🚀 Future Scope



\- Real CCTV integration  

\- Live camera feeds  

\- IoT traffic signals  

\- Cloud AI  

\- Smart dashboards  

\- Mobile apps  

\- Emergency API integration  

\- Traffic prediction AI
